[THEME MUSIC]
>>GEORGE NOORY: The
afterlife, something
that we're all fascinated
with because one day,
we're going to visit it.
Tonight's guest
on "Beyond Belief"
deals with the afterlife.
>> Roberta Grimes says the truth
about death changes everything.
She is the author of
a number of books,
including the trilogy,
"The Fun of Dying,"
"The Fun of Staying in
Touch," and "The Fun
of Growing Forever."
Decades after a formative
childhood experience involving
light, Roberta has
studied the afterlife,
learned from communications
with the dead,
and reconciled her work
with the teachings of Jesus.
She reveals what
she has discovered
regarding what humans really
are and the true purpose
of human life, today,
on "Beyond Belief."
>>NOORY: Roberta, welcome.
It's always a pleasure to
have you on the show with us.
>>ROBERTA GRIMES: George
I'm thrilled to be here.
I always love talking to you.
>>NOORY: Roberta, last
time we were together,
we talked about
"The Fun of Dying."
Now, we're talking about
"The Fun of Growing Forever."
What's the difference?
>>GRIMES: "The Fun of
Dying" is about the process.
It's about what we know
about the afterlife,
about death, the process of
getting there, all of that.
"The Fun of Growing Forever" is
about what the dead have told
us is the reason we're here.
We're here to learn
to grow spiritually.
That's it.
This is just a bad afternoon
in a spiritual gym.
And "The Fun of Growing
Forever" shows you
how to ace this lifetime
and make it your last.
>>NOORY: So you're an attorney
and an expert on the afterlife.
How did those two things gel?
>>GRIMES: When I
was a child, I had
an extraordinary experience.
And it made me know there's
something else going
on we aren't being told.
So that was what made me want
to look at the afterlife.
But what I felt was that we have
almost 200 years of evidence,
abundant totally consistent
of what's going on that nobody
was looking at at the time.
>>NOORY: So in a
court of law you
could prove that the
afterlife exists?
>>GRIMES: I could prove.
And what's interesting
is just a little side
note is that a number of
attorneys are doing this.
The most prominent is Victor
Zammit in Sydney, Australia.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRIMES: His book is "A
Lawyer Presents the Evidence
for the Afterlife."
And he does it just
like a courtroom case.
>>NOORY: [LAUGHS]
>>GRIMES: But yeah.
I think because we're
taught to do research,
and we're also taught
to be skeptical--
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GRIMES: --it tends to be
a good pastime for lawyers.
>>NOORY: Well, and
throughout this program,
we're going to hear
from some skeptics.
And I want you to react to that.
>>GRIMES: OK.
>>NOORY: Why are people
so skeptical about it?
When you look at the
grand scale of life,
there's got to be
a design behind it.
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: You know,
and I'm not going
to talk about the existence of
God because I think most of us
believe in that.
But the point is, this
is not an accident.
It's not a fluke.
I don't need evidence
to convince me of that.
How come these people are
so skeptical about this?
>>GRIMES: Well,
I'm a skeptic too
because I know there's
something real there,
and I know a lot of people
have a lot of ideas about it.
And I want to know what's true.
So I'll only accept
what I can see fits
with everything else we
know and there's just
no way to refute it.
It has to be true.
So we're all skeptics.
But there are people who
feel threatened by it.
Some people just don't want
there to be an afterlife.
Many people feel it's religious,
so there's like a dichotomy.
Either you're a serious,
science-type person
or you're a frivolous,
religious woo-woo person.
There's no
possibility of being--
>>NOORY: There's no
in-between is that?
>>GRIMES: Right.
But, in fact, in-between
is where the truth is.
>>NOORY: Sure.
>>GRIMES: And we've got
to have the truth now,
because if we don't, this
civilization is going down.
I think we can-- we
could see it happening.
But too many people have allowed
their spiritual vibration
to go too low because they've
made fear-based decisions.
Fear is what
religions are about.
It's time for us to start
over and do it right.
And that's what really,
that's the essence
of what afterlife research is.
What are we supposed
to be doing?
>>NOORY: Professor Richard
Dawkins, a true skeptic,
I want you to take a look
at a little clip of this.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- Do you wish for, or indeed
hope for an afterlife?
So this takes us
back to religion.
Richard?
- [INAUDIBLE]
- Let's be realistic about this.
We have brains.
It's brains that
do the thinking.
Our brains are going to decay.
That'll be that.
[LAUGHTER]
- That's depressing.
- But when you say if this
it, how much more do you want?
I mean, this is wonderful.
- Listen, we have--
- Another five minutes.
[LAUGHTER]
[APPLAUSE]
So you don't wish
for an afterlife?
- Wouldn't it be incredibly
tedious after the first 1,000
years or so?
[LAUGHTER]
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: So obviously,
he's appearing
on a British
television show, kind
of making light of the fact
that the afterlife exists.
>>GRIMES: These
are three things I
hope I can remember
of the three, which
I think we need to address.
He says your mind is
generated by your brain.
Your mind is not
>>NOORY: It's the other
way around, I think.
>>GRIMES: Your brain is nothing
more than a two-way radio
in the head of a meat robot.
This body is the avatar.
You know, Jake back
in his pod, if people
have seen that movie,
that's where our mind really
is, nowhere near our body.
So that's the first
mistake he makes.
Your mind goes on forever.
You never began.
You never will end
because in the reality,
which even physicists
know is most a reality,
there is no time.
Time is an artifact of
the universe and only
of the universe.
And the material universe
makes up less than 5%
of what we know is true.
Even if you're a physicist,
you would say that.
The rest is dark
matter and dark energy,
only because it's not material.
So he's getting off
on the wrong track.
Then he's saying the
belief in the afterlife
has to be religious.
That's nonsense.
>>NOORY: It's not true.
>>GRIMES: In fact,
I've investigated
a number of religions.
I'm a Christian scholar.
And I can tell you that none
of the main things Christians
believe are true, none, about
the afterlife, about heaven,
about God.
None of it is true.
So let's try let's throw
the religion thing aside.
And it's just when people start
with the wrong suppositions,
there's no way they can get
to the right conclusions.
And when we have a
scientific community
where the gatekeepers
are saying,
we adopt materialism as a
fundamental dogma of science,
which they did in the early
part of the 20th century,
at that point, they're
already off the rails.
They can never get from a dogma,
which means they turn science
into a religion, to the truth.
And that's why, frankly, we've
been in the weeds in science.
They put up a good
front, but they have
made no progress in 100 years.
>>NOORY: As an attorney, if you
had Dawkins on a witness stand
and you were trying to grill
him about the existence
of the afterlife, you
being a lawyer who
believes in it, he being a
skeptic who doesn't, what
would you ask him?
>>GRIMES: I would
ask him where he
gets the theory, which is all
it is, that the brain generates
the mind?
And I would present him
with abundant evidence
that the brain does
not generate the mind.
The mind is nowhere
near the brain.
Everyone's heard of NDEs,
which are very useful, even
though they have--
>>NOORY: Near Death Experiences.
>>GRIMES: I'm sorry, yes.
>>NOORY: That's all right.
>>GRIMES: We talk
shorthand in this field.
Everybody knows about
near-death experiences.
There are also
out-of-body experiences.
And there are just so many
ways we know, remote viewing.
There are so many ways we
know that the mind-- your mind
travels a lot, even
when you're awake.
And it certainly travels
when you're asleep.
And how do you
explain those things?
You can't explain
them if you insist
that the brain is anything
more than a two-way radio.
So that's where I'd start.
And then I would go on
to talk about the fact
that we have so many
communications from people
we used to think were dead.
And all of them are talking
about the same place.
They all had
different experiences,
but over 200 years of
these communications--
and I've read
hundreds-- I've never
seen two that were
repeated, and I've never
seen two that talked
about a different concept.
It all has the same
physics, the same process,
the same pastimes, the same
clothing, the same everything.
The meaning and purpose of
human life, all the same.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRIMES: If there
are no outliers,
I think that's strong evidence
that we found something real.
>>NOORY: There was
a moment in my life
that I did not believe
in the afterlife.
Let me tell you what
happened, because I've always
been a believer.
I've always believed
that there's
much more to our existence
than what we have.
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: But I had a friend
died in a motorcycle accident.
And this must have been
about six, seven years ago.
And so all these years I'm
believing there's an afterlife.
And then I go to his funeral.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: And I'm looking
at him in the casket.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: I had just seen
him a couple days before.
>>GRIMES: Yeah, it's awful.
He He was alive.
He was moving.
And there he was,
stiff as a board, gone.
And for some reason, Roberta,
this starkness hit me.
I felt as if, what if
there's nothing for him?
It's done.
It's over.
There is no afterlife.
There is nothing.
It's over.
It was the starkest,
coldest feeling--
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: --I've ever had.
>>NOORY: I didn't like it.
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: At all.
>>GRIMES: Yep.
>>NOORY: And then
I got out of it.
I changed.
I came back to the old me again.
And I went, no, there
is an afterlife.
There's something more to this.
He's in a different
plane of existence.
And I felt much better.
It's a horrible feeling--
>>GRIMES: It is.
>>NOORY: --to think--
>>GRIMES: I've been there.
I know.
>>NOORY: --it just ends.
>>GRIMES: Yep.
>>NOORY: And this is it.
So the question is, even
though I believe in it
and you believe in
it, was the creation
of the existence
of the afterlife
created by theologians
and religious people
to give us that feeling of
hope that this continues?
>>GRIMES: The reality is, and
there's so much evidence that
cannot be refuted, the reality
is your mind is eternal.
And it is part of the eternal
mind that continuously
manifests the universe.
Nothing else exists that's real.
And we can prove that
six ways to Sunday.
Max Planck said it,
for heaven's sake.
Albert Einstein said
variations of the same thing,
but they ignored those
things they said,
which is a little silly.
But when you get
to the basic fact
that there is so
much more going on,
and then you look
at the fact that we
have so many
communications from people
and they tell us the
truth, I have to tell you.
It doesn't come from religion.
It comes from our knowing.
We all have an inner knowing,
which we can choose to reject.
And as I say, it's a
shock, of course, when
you see a friend in a casket.
>>NOORY: Of course.
>>GRIMES: You've going
to get past the idea
that body was him.
And that can be hard.
But in fact, our
minds are eternal.
And when you get that to
the depth of your soul,
it changes everything.
But no, the afterlife
is not religious,
has nothing to do with religion.
>>NOORY: Well, what I've told
people, if there's an afterlife
and when we die, you're
going to know about it.
You're going to know about it.
>>GRIMES: [LAUGHS]
yeah, for sure.
>>NOORY: If there is no
afterlife, it doesn't matter.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: Because you
won't know about it.
It's done.
But to think more
positively that it exists.
Neil deGrasse Tyson--
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: Host of "The Cosmos"--
>>NOORY: --and also
noted scientist
has his own thoughts
of the afterlife.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- That there's no
evidence that I have
any consciousness of anything.
And by the way,
is that so weird?
Did you have consciousness
before you were born?
Were you saying, how
come I'm not on Earth?
My gosh, I need to be on Earth.
Or how could-- where am I?
No.
There's just the
state of nonexistence.
- Ah.
- And so I'm not
given any reason--
- Yeah, but now I am born.
- OK.
- And I can't stand the
thought of nonexistence.
See, I already have existence.
I don't-- I accept that.
- OK, it is true.
We fear death--
- You bet.
- --because we are
born knowing only life.
- Right.
- I get that.
However, I take another view,
because I've been asked.
If you could live
forever, would you?
- Yes.
- [LAUGHS] OK, we're
done with the interview.
- [ ?
I don't even have to
finish this sentence ? ]
- Yes.
No, OK, sure.
That's an attractive idea.
But the way I look at it
is it is the knowledge
that I'm going to die that
creates the focus that I bring
to being alive.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: OK, so there was Neil
appearing with Larry King.
Larry wants to live
forever, forever.
>>GRIMES: Bless his heart.
>>NOORY: Now, is that possible
when you think about it,
not necessarily physically,
but also living forever
in the other side?
>>GRIMES: We're eternal
by definition because we
exist outside of time.
And because that's true, it's
impossible not to live forever.
I tell-- I hear from people
who are contemplating suicide.
I tell them the
problem with suicide
is you can't kill your mind.
You just make all your problems
worse if you kill yourself.
So don't do it.
It's easier to fix them here.
But yes, we have memories.
Pre-birth memories are common.
The problem with people
like him is they're
going through around like this.
[HUMS] oh, there's no afterlife.
But they don't want to know.
They never look at the evidence.
When you look at the evidence,
you can't dispute it.
You can't
>>NOORY: There's too much.
>>GRIMES: There's too much.
And it comes at you from all
different directions too.
That's what's beautiful.
It all fits together.
There's a gigantic
tapestry being
assembled by the researchers.
But there are many people
who have pre-birth memories,
so he's just being silly.
>>NOORY: You've written a
couple of books, Roberta,
about the afterlife.
One's called, of course,
"The Fun of Dying."
I want to ask you
about that title
and, of course, "The
Fun of Growing Forever."
It's your series, "The Fun of."
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: Why do you
think it's fun to die?
>>GRIMES: It's not my idea.
The dead tell us that
over and over again.
The dead tell us it's fun.
The process of death
can be very pleasurable.
Getting there isn't so
good because your body's
got to be made weak
enough to be able to die.
But once you're
out of your body,
the very act of leaving your
body is almost orgasmic,
some of them tell us.
And you're young, and
light, and free, and happy.
And you feel terrific, suddenly,
when you were, basically,
in a doorstop a few minutes
ago, your whole body.
So that part's fun.
And when you get to
the afterlife, which
happens right away, because
it's in the same place
we are, just on a different--
slight changing channels.
Your mind changes channels.
That's all that happens.
When you get there, there
is so much more to do.
It's beautiful.
Everybody you used to think was
dead is alive, young, healthy,
happy.
It's infinitely fun.
Everything that's good about the
earth is there a thousandfold.
Everything that's negative
about the earth has gone.
What's not good-- what's
not to like about that?
It's all fun.
>>NOORY: I want to look at some
graphics about the afterlife
and have you comment--
>>GRIMES: OK.
>>NOORY: --on some of those.
Let's take a look
at our first one.
So Roberta, what are we
looking at right here?
>>GRIMES: This is
a typical scene.
It looks very earth-like,
beautiful water, fountains,
lovely, lovely
garden, basically.
Only there, the flowers
would be in colors
we've never seen before
because they exist
outside the afterlife spectrum.
The trees are alive.
If you walk by them, they'll
caress you as you go by.
And the water is what
Jesus called living water.
You walk into it, and you
can walk right through it
and come out dry.
But it's full of energy.
And it makes you--
it rejuvenates you.
It's like having,
again, it's thrilling.
Everything that happens
there is thrilling.
>>NOORY: It's this like what
you would feel in the afterlife?
>>GRIMES: This is a
typical scene in the middle
of-- the Summerland levels,
which are loosely levels three,
four, and five of a--
>>NOORY: And what do you mean
by the Summerland levels?
>>GRIMES: The afterlife
has infinite sub-levels.
They're just slight changes
in vibration in this energy.
But we break them up
into the lowest level,
which is the outer darkness.
Jesus called it that.
There's a slightly better level.
And then levels
three through five
are like that, only the higher
you go, the more beautiful
it is, many formal
gardens, especially
for the North American
and British Summerlands.
But it's culture-specific.
So if we died in China and
went to the same place,
we would find pagodas.
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>GRIMES: Whatever we
would like to see is there.
>>NOORY: So we would see
that in the afterlife.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: What's this.
Nice garden.
>>GRIMES: Yes, but notice
how it looks earth-like,
but a little bit different.
I mean, you mean,
the flowers are--
there was more flowers
there probably.
But they're not quite--
they're not daisies.
One of the things that people
enjoy about the afterlife
when they first get there
is that it looks familiar,
but it's just much
more interesting.
There's more going on.
The colors are so different.
I mean, you might
walk down this path
and all the foliage
could be orange
because it doesn't
need chlorophyll.
>>NOORY: How do we
know that's real?
How do we know that exists?
>>GRIMES: Because
the dead tell us so.
We have so many
communications now.
And the communication
between the afterlife
is getting better and better.
And they over and over
and over again tell us.
Oh, this is neat because in the
afterlife of the North American
Summerland there are mountains.
See the foothills that are
closer, and then beautiful
mountains.
Mikey Morgan, with whom I
co-wrote a book with his mother
Carol, snowboards still.
He died at 20, and
he still snowboards.
And this is the kind
of thing it looks like,
these beautiful mountains.
And just as an aside, you
see those little trees
which probably would be
pretty far away from us?
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>GRIMES: According
to the dead, we
are mind site, which is what
we have in the afterlife.
Not only is it 360
degrees, but it is so good
that you're able to see
every leaf on every tree
on every mountain.
>>NOORY: Now, there are
some upper levels, fifth
and sixth levels.
>>GRIMES: The fifth levels--
>>NOORY: How many
levels are there?
>>GRIMES: Well,
there are seven-ish.
>>NOORY: Seven-ish levels.
>>GRIMES: We don't
know what's above it.
That's the thing.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>GRIMES: And they
haven't told us.
>>NOORY: So this
would be level five.
What are we looking
at here, Roberta?
>>GRIMES: Well, notice
how the higher we get,
the more sort of
surreal it looks.
Notice how the sky is
not blue because it
doesn't have to be blue.
For many afterlife scenes, it's
actually pink or orangey-pink.
And the trees look
normal, but not quite.
And notice they're sort
of colors down here
that look a little strange.
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>GRIMES: It just
doesn't look normal,
but it looks almost like
the earth, only fantastical.
This is roughly what
level six looks like.
And level six also has wonderful
universities, beautiful places
of learning, because
at level six,
we are at the highest
level below the source.
The source is at level seven.
And it looks a
little bit like this.
>>NOORY: Pleasant.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: How about this one?
>>GRIMES: The fact that the
sky is blue would probably not
be accurate.
But notice we've got here
some fantastical buildings.
There's no gravity there.
So the buildings can
be very fantastical,
especially the higher
you go, because nothing
is going to fall down.
And we get to mind
create whatever
we like as we get to a
higher level of vibration.
It's just more fun.
Everyone should be working
on spiritual growth
because the higher you go,
the more fun you can have.
But this is another
typical scene.
And since travel is by
mind and instantaneous,
this might be a beautiful
city with nobody in it
unless someone feels like
going there, because we all
decide we want to go to Tahiti
this afternoon, we'll be there.
Just think about it.
>>NOORY: There are no traffic
jams in the afterlife.
>>GRIMES: No traffic
jams, that's right.
That's right.
>>NOORY: And let's look
at our last graphic here.
>>GRIMES: This is a
university on level six.
And, again, I question
the color of the sky.
But for the rest,
it's pretty accurate.
Notice that some of them are
dressed in these long robes
and they look like
angel robes, almost.
Those are called spirit robes.
And they would, in
a genuine scene,
they would actually be in
light colors, pastel colors.
>>NOORY: Those are souls,
basically, those people?
>>GRIMES: Those
are people, yeah.
They are.
>>NOORY: Who have passed on.
>>GRIMES: Yes, and
they're in level six.
So when they go to level
six-- because you can always
go higher.
I mean lower.
You cannot go higher.
So if you are only developed
at level four level,
you can't go to this place.
But if you've developed yourself
sufficiently, you can go there.
And then you can go back
to level three or four
and see the family.
>>NOORY: Roberta, what
is the hell level?
What would that be called?
>>GRIMES: That's
the outer darkness.
There is no hell in
the sense of a burning,
you know, burning in fire.
It just doesn't exist.
Jesus called it
the outer darkness
where there will be wailing
and gnashing of teeth.
And that's the lowest level,
right above the earth level.
And it's dark, dank,
smelly, unpleasant,
full of demons who
are really people.
And they're presenting
the way they feel.
People who have not been
able to forgive themselves
for what they did in life
very often end up there.
And you can't get
out on your own.
You've got to be rescued.
>>NOORY: Do those in
the afterlife talk
about that hell-like state?
>>GRIMES: The hell-like state?
>>NOORY: Yeah, do they
report back and say,
this is what it's like,
like they did with these?
>>GRIMES: Oh, sure.
Oh, sure.
One of the things
that can happen
if you're fairly
well-developed right after you
die, you may be asked if
you're willing to go and do
some relief work in
the lowest level,
because your vibration is
still raising for a time
after you die.
And someone who has just
died is more readily
perceived by someone
in the lowest level.
So they can't see the high-level
being who is taking you there.
But they may be able to see you.
And if they do, then
you basically say,
there's a guy with me
who wants to help you.
And try to get the attention
of the people there.
Otherwise, they're just
steeped in their own misery.
>>NOORY: In the
afterlife, there's also
that belief in reincarnation.
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: So at one
point do these souls
regenerate and come back?
>>GRIMES: What seems to be the
case is the whole unit that
was here, from your grandparents
down through grandchildren,
will stay there,
because people say,
what if mom reincarnates
before I get there?
It doesn't happen.
But we hunger for spiritual
growth when we're there.
Think of every craving
you've ever had
and put it all together, whether
it's food, sex, success, money,
everything, and
multiply that by 100.
And that's how much you
want to grow spiritually
when you're in the afterlife.
So that craving comes over you.
And sooner or
later, if you're not
able to advance
without reincarnating,
you'll be happy to do it.
>>NOORY: Do you remember
the movie "What Dreams May
Come" with Robin Williams,
God rest his soul.
He's now in the afterlife.
>>GRIMES: He is, and having fun.
>>NOORY: How bizarre that it is.
But--
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: --is it
really that way?
I mean, how they depicted that?
>>GRIMES: Not quite.
Some of it looked right-ish.
But the notion that he's-- she's
in a low level if I can recall
the movie.
She's in a low level,
and he is going
to be there to be with her.
But very soon they won't
recognize each other.
That was pathetic.
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>GRIMES: And that's kind of--
if she could perceive him,
and he's at a higher arbitrary
level, he can rescue her.
That's what the work would be,
because our minds are eternal.
Nobody is condemned
permanently to any place.
There's always growth.
It just takes a lot
longer for people
who refuse to try to grow.
But they'll get there.
>>NOORY: As we get
up in age, Roberta,
we begin to think about
death a little bit more
than we did when we
were 10 or 20 years old.
>>GRIMES: Right.
>>NOORY: What words of
wisdom would you give people
as they get a little older, as
they get closer to that moment?
Because it's going to happen.
>>GRIMES: I think
it's much better
to try to understand
what's actually going on.
People who die as very strict
Christians die in fear.
And I hear that over and over
again from hospice workers.
I was the strictest
Christian you can
imagine for most of my life.
I read the Bible six or
eight times, cover to cover,
majored in religion and
Christianity in college.
And I've got to tell you
what they tell you is wrong.
So it's time when you get to
be 60, 70 years old, it's time
to try to learn what's
true, because the truth is
where God is.
God is truth.
Jesus said, you
shall know the truth,
and the truth will
make you free.
And it's true.
It does make you free.
So I would say first off, forget
what they tell you in church
and try to learn the truth for
yourself, because it is beyond
wonderful.
And you are much more loved
than you can possibly imagine.
>>NOORY: Let's look at the late
atheist, Christopher Hitchens,
and some of the
things he had to say--
>>GRIMES: Sure.
>>NOORY: --about why
it doesn't exist.
[VIDEO PLAYBACK]
- But people are just as
convinced that they used
in past lives to be-- it
always tends to be a princess,
you notice.
[LAUGHTER]
Or a charioteer or
something of this sort.
That's-- this is real to them
as the rest of their pathetic
lives are.
[LAUGHTER]
But it's--
- And you point?
- It's subjective, and
it's wish-fulfilling.
And it doesn't count.
I'm actually a bit
amazed we haven't
got to wish fulfillment yet.
Can I say a word about that?
- Sure.
- I mean Freud in his
"Future of an Illusion"
says that the connection between
our desires and our beliefs,
in the case of the
afterlife, is so obvious.
It's mankind's oldest
and most strong dread.
Maybe we could
duck the fate that
appears to be in store for us.
[END PLAYBACK]
>>NOORY: Well, he knows
now one way or another--
>>GRIMES: He does.
>>NOORY: --whether
the afterlife exists.
>>GRIMES: He said, oops.
>>NOORY: He's gone.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
>>NOORY: What do you
think he's doing?
What do you think he's saying?
>>GRIMES: I think--
>>NOORY: I was wrong.
>>GRIMES: --he may be Trying
to fix his legacy here.
A number of them are.
People who were prominent
atheists, when they get there,
they go, oh.
And they see what they
can do to fix their legacy
>>NOORY: I remember the case
of Madalyn Murray O'Hair.
She's dead.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: She was a true atheist.
>>GRIMES: Uh-huh.
>>NOORY: True atheist.
Murdered.
I'm not even sure if they
ever found her bones yet.
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It's a strange story.
But again, here's another person
who may be on the other side.
Do you think that they say to
themselves, why was I so wrong?
>>GRIMES: Yeah,
of course they do.
And everyone goes
through a life review.
And you're shown
your entire life.
And you're made to feel
the way you made everybody
feel during your life.
And that's the hard
part because people
have a lot of trouble
forgiving themselves
if they've hurt people.
And she hurt a lot of people.
So it is quite possible that
she couldn't forgive herself.
And she may right now be
in the outer darkness,
and people are
trying to rescue her.
That would be my guess with her.
>>NOORY: Can you be rescued?
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
But you have to first
perceive your rescuers.
That's usually the problem,
because higher-level beings
are the only ones who
are safe going there.
And they can't be seen.
That's why when you cross over
if you're a really good person,
they will say, you have
a little space and time
where they may be able
to see you down there.
Will you come with us please?
And they take you there.
>>NOORY: What message would
you impart on people, Roberta,
who are on the fence
about the afterlife?
>>GRIMES: Don't be
afraid to investigate it.
I think the hardest part of
investigating the afterlife
is what if the news is bad.
I didn't even think
about that till I'd
spent decades doing it, because
I knew it wouldn't be bad.
But it's good.
All the news is good.
So do the investigation
because it makes you happy.
And once you really get it, the
most important thing it does,
I think, is take away all fear.
Fear of death is the base fear.
And fear is the most
negative emotion we can have.
So if you're living
in fear of death
or of fear of
anything else, you're
not going to be able to
make much progress here.
You'll be coming back
over and over again.
The Buddhists call it
turning on the wheel.
You don't have to do that.
>>NOORY: Now did
this information
come to you by spirit
guides, by those
who died on the other side?
I mean, are you that kind
of an intuitive medium?
How does this happen for you?
>>GRIMES: I'm not
a medium at all.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>GRIMES: I used to think
I was psychic as a post.
Now, I've lately discovered
all my books were channeled.
But all my research has been
done the hard way, using books.
And this was back when
we had no internet.
So I bought a lot of books.
>>NOORY: So these are stories
from other cases and things
like that?
>>GRIMES: They're
usually stories
from people who are dead
coming through trusted sources.
I trust very little that's
been received after 1950
because I sort of think it's
probably commercialized.
>>GRIMES: Mhm.
>>NOORY: But before
1950, there was
a heyday of deep-trance
medium communications.
And they are excellent.
And they all fit together.
And a lot of these
questions were asked.
Some of them weren't, though.
And it's frustrating
to read the old stuff,
and you have a question
and nobody is asking it
until finally, very
late, someone one
said to I think it was
their daughter who had died.
So are you solid?
Are you a vapor?
She said, I'm solid as you are.
I thought, duh.
Of course, she is.
>>NOORY: Take us through
a moment of death
from somebody who's
in the hospital.
They're on their hospital
bed, and they're dying.
Take us through
that process that
gets them into the afterlife.
>>GRIMES: Two or three
days before death,
usually pain goes away,
which is why it's a mistake
to heavily medicate the dead.
They don't need
it after a while.
And usually within 24 to 48
hours, sometimes only 12 hours,
they start to see people
they used to think were dead.
Everyone knows that Steve Jobs'
last words we're, "Oh wow.
Oh, wow.
Oh, wow."
>>NOORY: Yeah, amazing.
>>GRIMES: Hours before he died.
That was when his
relatives showed up.
That is when you know
everything is going to be fine.
And usually, the
people at that stage
stop communicating
with the living.
Then as you actually
are dying, you're
like you're built like
a Matryoshka doll,
like a Russian doll.
You've got internal
energy bodies.
And a couple of
them are staying.
This is an energy body too.
We aren't aware that our
material bodies are just
energy.
But the rest is leaving.
So it gathers.
It like gets out of your
fingers, out of your toes,
up into your torso.
And then it leaves out
through the top of the head
or through--
>>NOORY: At death.
>>GRIMES: --the chest.
>>NOORY: That's death.
>>GRIMES: That's
not quite death.
That's the process of
getting out of the body.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>GRIMES: And that
feels terrific.
As I've said, some people
say it feels orgasmic.
Usually, people who are at the
deathbed may actually see it.
They may see a
mist over the body.
And you can find on the internet
mice being killed in a trap
and see a [WHOOP] go
out of their bodies.
So it's a known phenomenon.
You form into a body
almost immediately.
And it's a young,
healthy, beautiful body
because your mind forms it.
It's naked.
You go oops, and you clothe
yourself with your mind.
And you're still attached
to that body by what's
called the silver cord.
But it's frayed.
And it suddenly breaks.
Then the body stops breathing.
That's the moment of death.
And that's a dangerous time--
>>NOORY: Mhm.
>>GRIMES: --because if you see
everybody going, oh, he died.
She died.
What do we do?
They want to comfort them
because here you are.
You feel terrific.
I never felt better.
But you can't pay attention
to those around the bed
because if you do, you'll
lower your spiritual vibration.
And that seems to be
the way we make ghosts.
You can make it so you can't
see your rescuers anymore
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: But you don't do that.
You say, Roberta
said I can't do that.
So you go with them.
It feels like you're going
through a sort of a fog
usually.
There's no tunnel and light,
by the way, in a real death.
And then the mist clears.
And in the same place, you see
this gorgeous new solid reality
around you, just as if
you'd changed a TV channel.
That's how death feels.
>>NOORY: And how long do
you stay on the other side
before you reincarnate,
come back, whatever?
>>GRIMES: There
is no time there.
Apparently, all our lifetimes
are being lived at once.
I don't understand it.
They say we'll understand
it when we get there.
So we can stay basically
an infinite amount of time.
There's a recovery period,
which is what we enter first
where if we'd been damaged,
we might even go to a hospital
and be convinced that
our body is healthy now.
If we've had traumatic
experiences, we get counseling.
And we just have fun.
It's like R and R.
And then gradually,
we sort of settle in, and
everybody else has come.
And we know when it's
time to come back.
But it's not a
time-ish kind of time.
It's more of a feeling in
our spirits that's it time.
>>NOORY: It's a spiritual gut.
>>GRIMES: Yes, exactly.
Perfectly said.
>>NOORY: Got some
questions for you.
>>GRIMES: OK.
>>NOORY: Sarah from
Manhattan in New York.
We just had to put our
beloved dog to sleep.
That's sad.
And the whole family
feels terrible about it.
Is there some kind
of a Rainbow Bridge.
Will we see him again?
Will he forgive us
for helping him die?
>>GRIMES: I love this question.
I get it almost every day now.
If people go to
robertagrimes.com,
there's a blog post,
which I think is called,
"When a Pet Dies."
It has a ton of comments.
And people Google and find it.
>>NOORY: Yeah, good.
>>GRIMES: And that's
how they come to me.
One of the things
we're most certain of
is that every pet that's
been loved by a human being,
even whether it's not
a dog or cat-- mine
is a horse-- they're there.
They're young.
They're healthy.
They're happy.
They're thrilled
with their lives.
And they're waiting for us.
That's one of the things,
of which we're most certain.
Other things which we think
this and that, it's for certain.
If you loved a pet, that
pet is waiting for you.
>>NOORY: Will the pet forgive
them for putting him down?
>>GRIMES: In fact, the
pets are very grateful,
because it's a lot better
there than it is here.
If you're in an old
doggy body, it's
no better than being
in an old human body.
So yeah, if you have
a pet, give the pet
the grace of being put down if
the dog is suffering at all.
>>NOORY: I've heard
incredible stories of people
who might be in their bed.
And they will see paw
prints of their dog or cat.
>>GRIMES: That happens.
Yes.
>>NOORY: That's amazing.
The animal comes back.
>>GRIMES: I talk about that in
"The Fun of Staying in Touch,"
which is another one
of the "Fun" books.
There are a lot of signs
that the dead pets give us.
And that's a very common one.
If a dog has slept on your
bed, you may very well
see and feel the paw prints.
>>NOORY: Yeah.
>>GRIMES: And then that little
depression when the dog goes
lies down by your leg or
wherever he used to be.
>>NOORY: It's remarkable.
It really is.
>>GRIMES: Isn't it wonderful?
>>NOORY: John in Phoenix.
I lost my mother three years
ago and haven't had any signs
from her at all.
Is she OK?
How would I know if she's OK?
What could I do to help her?
>>GRIMES: People get
signs, I think, with almost
every completed death.
But the problem is people
don't know what the signs are.
There are many more signs
the dead give us commonly
than most people are aware of.
"The Fun of Growing Forever"
outlines what those signs are.
When I get an email like that,
I usually say, here's my book.
I send them the PDF.
And I say, tell me when
you see your first sign.
It usually comes within a day.
>>NOORY: That fast, huh?
>>GRIMES: Yeah.
>>NOORY: It comes to us.
>>GRIMES: Because they want
us to know they're fine.
It's like they send postcards.
Those signs are just
postcards, saying hey,
I've arrived safely.
Now, I'm going to go have fun.
>>NOORY: But if you never
get that connection,
does that mean anything?
>>GRIMES: Usually not.
And I usually don't talk
about what it might mean,
because if someone's lived
even a halfway decent life,
I'm sure they're fine.
Some of them don't
want to communicate.
My own father didn't want to
communicate with anybody here
for 20 years after his death.
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: They're people.
They're the same people
they were in life.
If someone has real
issues and ends up
in the outer darkness
level, they're
not able to communicate.
That's about the only thing.
One woman who talked
me about her son who
had lived a very difficult
life, not been a nice person,
and killed himself, and
she couldn't get any signs.
I am pretty certain he not
where he can talk to her.
>>NOORY: Yeah,
I've had two family
members who have passed on.
And at this point,
I still haven't
had any contact with them.
Not that I go seek get it.
But it hasn't come to me.
>>GRIMES: Almost always,
they're giving us signs.
It's just that we aren't
aware of what they are.
And they're subtle.
And also, people
tend to doubt them.
They say, well, that
could be a sign.
But it could also
be a coincidence--
>>NOORY: Right.
>>GRIMES: --or the weather,
or who knows what else.
So I just recommend that
people open their minds
to the possibility.
And whenever you see a
sign, always say, thank you.
I see that.
Do it again.
Say it aloud, because the
energy of your recognition
helps to strengthen their
ability to give us signs.
>>NOORY: Sure.
Karina from Los Angeles.
I'm terrified of
death, she says.
I think about it all the time.
How can you be so sure
that there is anything
after we die, something we've
been talking about all night?
>>GRIMES: If you never
look up, you will never
know if there's a sky.
And that's the problem.
People don't know where
to look for the proof.
The proof is everywhere.
All of my "Fun" books
have a 70-odd book
annotated bibliography of the
people who-- don't believe me.
Who am I?
But there are experts
who have spent
their lives researching
little areas
of the afterlife evidence.
Read.
Open your mind and
heart and read.
There is no possibility at
all that you will ever die.
It is impossible for you to die.
We can state that.
>>NOORY: Well, I
think that's one
of the most important things.
People really need to
open up themselves.
>>GRIMES: That's right.
>>NOORY: And believe this.
Because if they fight it, that's
not going to happen for them.
>>GRIMES: No, No.
And it's good to be skeptical.
It's just don't be so skeptical
that you close yourself in,
because that just is
counterproductive.
>>NOORY: Brady
from Philadelphia.
I have never been
able to believe in God
although I really try.
What advice do you have for
people who simply do not
or cannot believe?
>>GRIMES: Well, I'm
going to say something
a little controversial.
The Christian God
does not exist.
What exists is
something a lot better,
which is the best
definition I've ever seen.
It's an energy-like potentiality
without size, without form,
alive in the way your mind
is alive, highly emotional.
And the only emotion of God
is love, therefore probably
self-aware, no size, no shape.
And God is the only
thing that exists.
That's God.
But God is the perfect.
God does not have human flaws.
God never takes human form,
except apparently, as Jesus.
That seems to be what the
dead are telling us now.
But God isn't like the Chris--
I don't believe in the Christian
God either.
I mean, the Christian
God is cranky.
And imagine a God that is so
judgmental that that God can't
forgive you for being human
unless that God gets to enjoy
watching his son be murdered.
>>NOORY: And wipes out
civilizations and things
like that.
>>GRIMES: Oh, my goodness.
>>NOORY: I've always had a
difficult time with that.
>>GRIMES: Yes.
That God does not exist.
>>NOORY: All right.
>>GRIMES: And everything
else that exists
is just an artifact
of God, exists within
God, something like
a thought, really.
>>NOORY: Roberta, what's
your advice on how people
can grow spiritually together?
>>GRIMES: The greatest spiritual
lessons that I've ever found
are in the Gospels.
No Christian I've
ever met follows them.
But my book, "The Fun
of Growing Forever,"
is an easy, quick
handbook for Westerners
in how to grow spiritually.
You can get to the--
you can make this
your last lifetime,
even if you're
60 when you start this process.
That's how easy and
how quick it is.
And it's fun.
And what is spiritual growth?
Spiritual growth
is infinite love.
So if you've ever been
in love in your life,
imagine feeling like
that all the time.
>>NOORY: What would be your
best tip, then, for people?
To love?
>>GRIMES: No, it's a process.
The hardest part is forgiveness.
You can't forgive each little
thing because if you do,
it makes you crazy.
But in "The Fun of
Growing Forever,"
I talk about how you can
use the teachings of Jesus
to forgive everything
once and for all,
and then never be bothered
by anything again.
I mean it.
It's amazing.
And you can forgive everything,
even the most horrible things.
>>NOORY: So as an
attorney, you're
now in a court room
of the afterlife.
And you have closing arguments.
Go ahead.
>>GRIMES: I think that
the burden of proof
has now been shifted to the
people who insist that there
is no afterlife, simply
because whenever we look
at the evidence, the evidence
all hangs together consistently
and proves the case.
If the opposing
counsel would simply
look at the evidence
with an open mind,
we would not be even
having this discussion.
There's no
alternative conclusion
that can be drawn from the
evidence before the court.
>>NOORY: One day, I'll
see you in the afterlife,
not too soon, I hope.
But we can at least look at
each other and go, uh-huh.
>>GRIMES: [LAUGHS]
>>NOORY: You were right.
>>GRIMES: That's the first
thing my mother said to me when
I talked to her after she died.
She never believed
me when she was here.
>>NOORY: Roberta, thanks for
being on "Beyond Belief."
>>GRIMES: Oh, thanks.
I've had so much fun
with you, George.
>>NOORY: You know, as
we've talked about,
we're not in a rush to get
to the other side at all.
But it's pretty sobering
to understand that
after listening to this
show and watching it,
that it does exist.
And that should give
you some comfort.
I'm George Noory, and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
Hi, this is George Noory.
And thank you for joining me
on another mind-bending season
of "Beyond Belief."
And stay tuned for
the next all-new
season starting in March.
Until then, here are some of
my favorite "Beyond Belief"
episodes from past seasons.
And there are always
new, original shows
to enjoy, only on Gaia.
[THEME MUSIC]